welcome to the man of recaps this is
arrow the eighth and final season at the
end of last season oliver and felicity
retired from superhero life and had a
baby daughter but soon after oliver was
visited by the monitor who was like hey
i need your help for crisis on infinite
earths where you will sacrifice yourself
to save the multiverse
so season 8 begins with oliver right
back where he started on lee and you
but this is the lianu on a parallel
earth earth 2 where apparently that
oliver queen never made it off the
island so our oliver gets to relive
season 1 with some hilarious changes
like his mother remarried malcolm merlin
his best friend tommy merlin's still
alive on this earth but his sister thea
queen died from an overdose of vertigo
remember that but he's not just here for
a trip down memory lane he's here to
collect some dwarf star particles which
i guess only exist
on this earth but the dark archer has
gotten here first and so oliver's
accosted by the earth 2 green arrow
who have failed they have a big green
arrow fight until it's broken up by
earth 2's laurel lance formerly the
villain black siren now redeemed as the
black canary she's teamed up with the
green arrow of this earth
adrian chase prometheus arguably
oliver's biggest villain this earth is a
few years behind they're dealing with
the dark archer of season one
it's malcolm merler yeah we thought so
too ruled him out months ago
it's malcolm merlin but turns out this
dark archer is not malcolm merlin it's
tommy merlin
yes thea's death turned him into a
villain and so he and oliver have a big
rooftop fight exactly like season one
but this time oliver's able to get
through to tommy convinces him to shut
down the earthquake machine and oliver's
got the dwarf star but just as oliver's
about to head home what is happening
here oh a wave of energy thanos dusting
everyone our team pieces out just in
time and earth 2 is completely destroyed
oliver wakes up in a location central to
arrow season 2
he's back in hong kong would you believe
it oliver has to stop the alpha omega
virus again and has to fake trade it to
his recurring villain chyna white but
then oliver starts to think how do i
know i can trust this monitor guy i need
to learn more about him from the ancient
wisdom of nanda parbat
headquarters of the league of assassins
and a central location to arrow season
3. he meets up with his sister thea
queen who's been here on her own solo
mission fighting the league of assassins
they team up with talia al ghul who like
many recurring characters on the show is
either a good guy or bad guy depending
on what the plot needs she's a good guy
when they team up to find the sort of
destiny but then a bad guy when thea has
to challenge her for leadership of the
league thea wins the fight but she has
no interest in leading the league of
assassins she's like hey why don't we
disband
it and form the league of heroes the
name could use some work but besides
that tally is in then they finally find
the ancient book about the monitor and
it says he's not here to stop crisis he
causes it but just then the monitor
teleports oliver back to the arrow
bunker
and not just him but his grown-up
children from the future
yes remember last season instead of
island flashbacks we had future children
flash forwards where they're living in a
dystopian star city and had to band
together to save the day now they formed
future team arrow and fight against the
infamous deathstroke gang led by none
other than john diggle's son
jj john jr in fact he just killed wild
dog's daughter zoe and as she's dying in
their arms that's when they were
teleported here grown-up william became
a tech genius billionaire and remembers
oliver because they spent some years
together but his newly born daughter mia
never met her father because he died
when she was a baby in this crisis
also on the team is conor hawk son of
recurring villain bronze tiger who
joined the good guys at the end of last
season but died turns out he gets
adopted by john diggle but it hasn't
happened yet the series of events
leading to it have just begun so the
kids give oliver the bad news that the
future
sucks and the futures followed him here
when the deathstroke gank attacks but
it's not jon junior from the future it's
the original founder of the deathstroke
gang
slade wilson's other son so oliver
trains mia to be the new green arrow and
together they stop the deathstrokes but
now back to the bigger problem of crisis
they think they can build a weapon to
stop the monitor but the plans to build
it are in russia the flashback location
from arrow season 5.
they meet up with anatoly who is
oliver's best friend than a villain for
a while but now best friend again helps
them get the plans but they run afoul of
the bratva and long story short oliver
and mia have to team up for some good
old russian cage fighting so the gang's
all set to take down the monitor but
turns out secretly working for the
monitor is lila michaels diggle's wife
and head of argus when they confront her
about it she's like no trust me we're
the good guys and has them trained
oliver wakes up to find the world
weirdly normal except that back to life
is mayor quentin lance oh i forgot how
much i missed him there's a bomb threat
that goes bad and boom but oliver
doesn't die he wakes up
yeah he's stuck in a time loop he goes
through it a couple times but no matter
what he does quentin always dies
eventually oliver realizes that's the
lesson here he can't save quentin the
only way to win
is to accept that yes it's an allegory
for oliver's own death in crisis
yes the monitor is the good guy and
needed all of her to understand so
oliver wakes up but wait where are they
he's back on lianu their mission now is
to build some science thing and for fake
science reasons it has to be built here
on lianu the rest of teameros flying in
to join them including roy harper yes
he's back last season he quit the team
again because he was dealing with the
bloodlust of lazarus pit fever but
diggle tracked him down like hey man we
can work through this together but
they're not alone on the island their
plane is shot down luckily everyone's
okay except for roy whose arm is pinned
and they have to amputate back on the
team one day
sucks for him but who shot down their
plane it is fires the season one island
villain who for fake science reasons is
back to life but also back to life is
oliver's original trainer yao faye so
while they build the science thing team
is having a big old fight finally lila
activates it and is like oh i know what
i've got to do teleport's out of there
she comes back a bit later with a fresh
new space outfit like hey my name's
harbinger now
and crisis is here now crisis on
infinite earths is the epic crossover
event that all the cw hero shows have
been leading up to to do a complete
recap on crisis i'd have to recap all of
the flash and supergirl which is a lot
the long story short someone's
destroying the entire multiverse with a
wave of anti-matter energy so the
monitors assembled a team of heroes to
stop them among them you may recognize
sarah lance who got her start to narrow
season 2 as the black canary but is now
the white canary time traveling captain
of the legends of tomorrow so green
arrow leads the team of heroes as they
fight dementors and oliver fights to the
very last running out of arrows and
sacrificing himself so the planet can be
evacuated but his daughter mia refuses
to accept that searches the multiverse
for a working lazarus pit puts him in
and boom oliver back to life but with
feral pit fever they bring in jon
constantine to do the ritual to save his
soul that they did on sarah back in the
day they traveled to oliver's personal
purgatory of lian you and long story
short
track him down but this random dude
shows up he's like what's up man i'm an
all-seeing being called the spectre and
it's your turn oliver to become the new
specter and save the multiverse long
story short the heroes lose and the
multiverse is destroyed except for a
select few heroes stuck outside of time
and space where they meet a newly
spectered
oliver queen he teleports them to the
dawn of time where they can fight the
villain the anti-monitor
there's a big avengers moment they fight
more dementors while oliver goes for the
1v1 it turns into a dragon ball z beam
blast battle that ends in the only way
it possibly could
have failed
so boom blows that guy up but oliver is
dying for real this time
sacrificing himself not just to save
star city but the entire multiverse so
the gang wakes up and oliver's put the
universe back to normal except wait a
second flash and supergirl lived on
different earths before but they're now
on the same one
yes the multiverse has been compressed
all these shows now take place on earth
prime
this has a bunch of weird consequences
but basically it's a full cw
vs reboot and with the heroes all living
on the same earth now they decide to
form the cw justice league
now back to arrow we actually first
check in with star city of the future
which is no longer a dystopian wasteland
it seems to be a great place mcqueen is
not a heart and vigilante but a happy
normal billionaire heiress whose
boyfriend's proposing oh it's
jiggle son john jr not the leader of the
deathstroke gang but a great guy
but black canaries laurel lance and
dinah drake have traveled here to the
future because it does not stay happy
for long long story short they team up
with mia for some future adventures in
the potential spin-off green arrow and
the canaries
but now back in the present everyone
gathers to honor oliver's sacrifice but
his reboot of the universe has caused
some interesting side effects for
instance diggle and lyla have their
daughter back who was erased from the
timeline due to flash shenanigans long
story and also oliver's mom moira queen
is back to life
it's unclear what the rules were but
apparently in at least one universe
oliver managed to save her so hey
this means tommy merlin also back to
life still flirting with laurel and
quentin lance back to life for real
not back to life though is oliver's
original earth one laurel earth to
laurels like why did he pick me why
didn't he bring back your laurel and
quentin says cause baby you're my laurel
oh tears also conspicuously absent is
malcolm merlin although i guess in
retrospect he was never actually
redeemed he was always kind of a villain
so to tie up loose ends roy gets a robot
arm and gets back together with dia
again so they can live happily ever
after for real this time then it's
teased that john diggle might become the
green lantern
all right i'm in and as star city
unveils their new statue paying tribute
to the green arrow there's an awesome
flashback too the hood of season 1 in an
epic all-new fight scene paying tribute
to the fight coordinators and stuntmen
the real heroes of this show
then felicity smoke is back i was
worried she wasn't going to be in this
season but she does make an appearance
meets her adult daughter and we catch up
to the end of season 7 where a future
felicity meets with the monitor and
mysteriously walks off with him she
arrives back in the good old queen
consolidated building where she's
reunited with her love oliver
yes fall oliver is back on for good this
time they're in the specter afterlife or
something where they can live happily
ever after
and that's how arrow comes to an end
if you like this recap hit that
subscribe button for more of the best
recaps of tv and movies and if you love
this recap hit the join button to
support the channel as a member